docs/features/privacy.md, before:

# Privacy Features

NymQuest is designed with privacy as a core principle. This document outlines the privacy features implemented in the game.

## Network-Level Privacy

- **Nym Mixnet Integration**: All game communications are routed through the Nym network for metadata privacy
- **Decentralized Architecture**: No central server needs to be trusted with player data
- **Metadata Protection**: The timing and frequency of game actions are obfuscated

## Anonymity Features

- **Anonymous Authentication**: Players can participate without revealing their real identity
- **Anonymous Player Identification**: Uses anonymous sender tags for player tracking
- **Enhanced Display IDs**: Players are assigned randomized display IDs using a word-number combination (e.g., Warrior123) rather than sequential numbering to improve anonymity
- **Message Size Normalization**: All messages are padded to standard size buckets to prevent size correlation attacks

## Message Pacing

A key privacy enhancement is the configurable message pacing system that was implemented to reduce timing correlation attack vulnerabilities:

- **Client-side Message Pacing**: 
  - Introduces controlled delays between message sends
  - Configurable interval (default: 100ms)
  - Can be enabled/disabled via environment variables

- **Server-side Message Processing Pacing**:
  - Introduces controlled delays between message processing
  - Configurable interval (default: 100ms)
  - Configurable jitter percentage (default: 25%)
  - Adds randomized timing variation to further prevent timing correlation attacks
  - Can be enabled/disabled via environment variables

- **Message Prioritization System**:
  - Categorizes messages by privacy-sensitivity and gameplay importance
  - Applies variable jitter based on message type to prevent timing correlation
  - Four priority levels: Critical, High, Medium, and Low
  - Creates realistic timing patterns while maintaining strong privacy protection
  - Prevents identification of message types through timing analysis
  - Automatically balances gameplay responsiveness with privacy protection

- **Priority Categories**:
  - **Critical**: Essential system messages (disconnects, acknowledgments)
  - **High**: Authentication and connection management (registration, heartbeats)
  - **Medium**: Gameplay actions (movement, combat)
  - **Low**: Social interactions (chat, emotes, whispers)

- **Privacy Benefits**:
  - **Timing Correlation Resistance**: Controlled delays prevent attackers from correlating messages by timing
  - **Traffic Analysis Protection**: Reduces patterns that could be used for traffic analysis
  - **Load-Adaptive Privacy**: Maintains privacy guarantees even during high server load
  - **Configurable Trade-offs**: Allows balancing privacy enhancement with responsiveness

## Security Measures

- **Message Authentication**: All messages are cryptographically authenticated using HMAC-SHA256 to prevent tampering
- **Adaptive Replay Protection**: 
  - Messages are verified with sequence numbers and authentication tags to prevent replay attacks
  - Dynamic window sizing that automatically adjusts based on network conditions
  - Larger windows for networks with high out-of-order message rates
  - Smaller windows for optimal performance on reliable networks
  - Privacy-preserving adaptation based on connection patterns, not user identity
- **Session Integrity Protection**: Prevents identity conflicts by requiring clients to disconnect before registering again

## Privacy-Preserving Rate Limiting

- **Token Bucket Algorithm**: Manages message rates per connection without tracking identities
- **Privacy-preserving**: Rate limits are applied per mixnet connection tag, not user identity
- **Anonymity Preservation**: No identity tracking in rate limiting implementation

## Message Size Normalization

A comprehensive privacy enhancement that protects against size correlation attacks:

- **Dynamic Size Buckets**: Messages are padded to fit dynamically varying size buckets based on a standard foundation (128, 256, 512, 1024, 2048, 4096 bytes)
- **Periodic Jitter**: Bucket sizes undergo small periodic variations (up to 5%) to prevent statistical analysis of traffic patterns
- **Deterministic Rotation**: The jitter algorithm uses a deterministic rotation schedule that varies automatically every 100 messages
- **Random Padding Content**: Messages are padded with random data to prevent analysis of padding content
- **Statistical Analysis Resistance**: Prevents sophisticated attackers from correlating messages based on size patterns over time
- **Full Network Stack Coverage**: Applied to both client-to-server and server-to-client communications
- **Transparent Implementation**: Works automatically without affecting game functionality
- **Low Overhead**: Efficiently implemented to minimize performance impact

This feature addresses a key privacy vulnerability where message sizes could leak information about message types and content, even when using the mixnet. By not only normalizing messages to standard size buckets but also introducing dynamic variations, this protection is significantly strengthened against advanced traffic analysis techniques.

## Privacy-Aware Monitoring

- **Privacy-Compliant Metrics**: All collected data respects privacy principles and doesn't compromise user anonymity
- **Anonymity Set Awareness**: Displays estimated anonymity set size for privacy context
- **Privacy Level Indicators**: Monitors anonymity protection status and provides visual feedback

## Configuration Options

To enhance privacy protection through message pacing:

**Client Configuration:**
```bash
# Enable message pacing for privacy protection (default: false)
export NYMQUEST_CLIENT_ENABLE_MESSAGE_PACING=true

# Minimum interval between message sends in milliseconds (default: 100ms)
export NYMQUEST_CLIENT_MESSAGE_PACING_INTERVAL_MS=100
```

**Server Configuration:**
```bash
# Enable message processing pacing for privacy protection (default: true)
export NYMQUEST_ENABLE_MESSAGE_PROCESSING_PACING=true

# Minimum interval between processing messages in milliseconds (default: 100ms)
export NYMQUEST_MESSAGE_PROCESSING_INTERVAL_MS=100

# Jitter percentage to apply to message processing (0-100) (default: 25)
export NYMQUEST_MESSAGE_PROCESSING_JITTER_PERCENT=25

# Replay protection window size (default: 64)
export NYMQUEST_REPLAY_PROTECTION_WINDOW_SIZE=64

# Enable adaptive replay protection window sizing (default: true)
export NYMQUEST_REPLAY_PROTECTION_ADAPTIVE=true

# Minimum window size for adaptive replay protection (default: 32)
export NYMQUEST_REPLAY_PROTECTION_MIN_WINDOW=32

# Maximum window size for adaptive replay protection (default: 96)
export NYMQUEST_REPLAY_PROTECTION_MAX_WINDOW=96

# Cooldown period in seconds between window size adjustments (default: 60)
export NYMQUEST_REPLAY_PROTECTION_ADJUSTMENT_COOLDOWN=60
```

By default, message pacing is disabled to maintain game responsiveness but can be enabled when enhanced privacy is required.

Commit message:

feat(privacy): Enhance message padding for improved traffic analysis resistance
- Implement multi-source entropy system with rotating strategies
- Expand jitter range from 5% to variable 2-8% for better unpredictability
- Add unpredictable rotation intervals (50-150 messages)
- Improve padding quality with thread-safe random generation
- Enhance error handling with explicit size validation
- Optimize logging with adaptive verbosity based on message size
- Update documentation to reflect enhanced privacy protections

docs/features/privacy.md, after:

# Privacy Features

NymQuest is designed with privacy as a core principle. This document outlines the privacy features implemented in the game.

## Network-Level Privacy

- **Nym Mixnet Integration**: All game communications are routed through the Nym network for metadata privacy
- **Decentralized Architecture**: No central server needs to be trusted with player data
- **Metadata Protection**: The timing and frequency of game actions are obfuscated

## Anonymity Features

- **Anonymous Authentication**: Players can participate without revealing their real identity
- **Anonymous Player Identification**: Uses anonymous sender tags for player tracking
- **Enhanced Display IDs**: Players are assigned randomized display IDs using a word-number combination (e.g., Warrior123) rather than sequential numbering to improve anonymity
- **Message Size Normalization**: All messages are padded to standard size buckets to prevent size correlation attacks

## Message Pacing

A key privacy enhancement is the configurable message pacing system that was implemented to reduce timing correlation attack vulnerabilities:

- **Client-side Message Pacing**: 
  - Introduces controlled delays between message sends
  - Configurable interval (default: 100ms)
  - Can be enabled/disabled via environment variables

- **Server-side Message Processing Pacing**:
  - Introduces controlled delays between message processing
  - Configurable interval (default: 100ms)
  - Configurable jitter percentage (default: 25%)
  - Adds randomized timing variation to further prevent timing correlation attacks
  - Can be enabled/disabled via environment variables

- **Message Prioritization System**:
  - Categorizes messages by privacy-sensitivity and gameplay importance
  - Applies variable jitter based on message type to prevent timing correlation
  - Four priority levels: Critical, High, Medium, and Low
  - Creates realistic timing patterns while maintaining strong privacy protection
  - Prevents identification of message types through timing analysis
  - Automatically balances gameplay responsiveness with privacy protection

- **Priority Categories**:
  - **Critical**: Essential system messages (disconnects, acknowledgments)
  - **High**: Authentication and connection management (registration, heartbeats)
  - **Medium**: Gameplay actions (movement, combat)
  - **Low**: Social interactions (chat, emotes, whispers)

- **Privacy Benefits**:
  - **Timing Correlation Resistance**: Controlled delays prevent attackers from correlating messages by timing
  - **Traffic Analysis Protection**: Reduces patterns that could be used for traffic analysis
  - **Load-Adaptive Privacy**: Maintains privacy guarantees even during high server load
  - **Configurable Trade-offs**: Allows balancing privacy enhancement with responsiveness

## Security Measures

- **Message Authentication**: All messages are cryptographically authenticated using HMAC-SHA256 to prevent tampering
- **Adaptive Replay Protection**: 
  - Messages are verified with sequence numbers and authentication tags to prevent replay attacks
  - Dynamic window sizing that automatically adjusts based on network conditions
  - Larger windows for networks with high out-of-order message rates
  - Smaller windows for optimal performance on reliable networks
  - Privacy-preserving adaptation based on connection patterns, not user identity
- **Session Integrity Protection**: Prevents identity conflicts by requiring clients to disconnect before registering again

## Privacy-Preserving Rate Limiting

- **Token Bucket Algorithm**: Manages message rates per connection without tracking identities
- **Privacy-preserving**: Rate limits are applied per mixnet connection tag, not user identity
- **Anonymity Preservation**: No identity tracking in rate limiting implementation

## Message Size Normalization

A comprehensive privacy enhancement that protects against size correlation attacks with an adaptive approach:

- **Dynamic Size Buckets**: Messages are padded to fit dynamically varying size buckets based on a standard foundation (128, 256, 512, 1024, 2048, 4096 bytes)
- **Enhanced Adaptive Jitter**: Bucket sizes undergo variable jitter (2-8%) to prevent statistical analysis of traffic patterns
- **Multiple Entropy Sources**: Uses four different entropy sources (message count, time of day, combined, and random) that rotate automatically
- **Unpredictable Rotation**: The jitter strategy rotates at varying intervals (50-150 messages) to prevent predictable patterns
- **Higher Quality Random Padding**: Uses thread-safe random number generation for improved padding quality
- **Message Size Validation**: Enforces maximum message size constraints with explicit error handling
- **Enhanced Logging**: Adaptive logging based on message size reduces log volume while maintaining visibility
- **Superior Statistical Analysis Resistance**: Enhanced jitter strategy is more resistant to sophisticated traffic analysis techniques
- **Full Network Stack Coverage**: Applied consistently to both client-to-server and server-to-client communications
- **Transparent Implementation**: Works automatically without affecting game functionality
- **Low Overhead**: Efficiently implemented to minimize performance impact

This feature addresses a key privacy vulnerability where message sizes could leak information about message types and content, even when using the mixnet. The enhanced implementation uses multiple sources of entropy and unpredictable rotation patterns to provide superior protection against advanced traffic analysis techniques, including those that might use machine learning to detect patterns in message sizes over time.

## Privacy-Aware Monitoring

- **Privacy-Compliant Metrics**: All collected data respects privacy principles and doesn't compromise user anonymity
- **Anonymity Set Awareness**: Displays estimated anonymity set size for privacy context
- **Privacy Level Indicators**: Monitors anonymity protection status and provides visual feedback

## Configuration Options

To enhance privacy protection through message pacing:

**Client Configuration:**
```bash
# Enable message pacing for privacy protection (default: false)
export NYMQUEST_CLIENT_ENABLE_MESSAGE_PACING=true

# Minimum interval between message sends in milliseconds (default: 100ms)
export NYMQUEST_CLIENT_MESSAGE_PACING_INTERVAL_MS=100
```

**Server Configuration:**
```bash
# Enable message processing pacing for privacy protection (default: true)
export NYMQUEST_ENABLE_MESSAGE_PROCESSING_PACING=true

# Minimum interval between processing messages in milliseconds (default: 100ms)
export NYMQUEST_MESSAGE_PROCESSING_INTERVAL_MS=100

# Jitter percentage to apply to message processing (0-100) (default: 25)
export NYMQUEST_MESSAGE_PROCESSING_JITTER_PERCENT=25

# Replay protection window size (default: 64)
export NYMQUEST_REPLAY_PROTECTION_WINDOW_SIZE=64

# Enable adaptive replay protection window sizing (default: true)
export NYMQUEST_REPLAY_PROTECTION_ADAPTIVE=true

# Minimum window size for adaptive replay protection (default: 32)
export NYMQUEST_REPLAY_PROTECTION_MIN_WINDOW=32

# Maximum window size for adaptive replay protection (default: 96)
export NYMQUEST_REPLAY_PROTECTION_MAX_WINDOW=96

# Cooldown period in seconds between window size adjustments (default: 60)
export NYMQUEST_REPLAY_PROTECTION_ADJUSTMENT_COOLDOWN=60
```

By default, message pacing is disabled to maintain game responsiveness but can be enabled when enhanced privacy is required.
