docs/technical/state_persistence.md, before:

# Game State Persistence

NymQuest includes a robust persistence system that allows the game state to be saved and recovered, ensuring continuity across server restarts and preventing data corruption.

## Overview

The server persistence system automatically:
- **Saves game state** to disk at regular intervals
- **Creates backups** before starting to prevent data loss
- **Recovers player data** on server restart
- **Validates compatibility** between saved state and current configuration
- **Cleans up stale data** by removing long-inactive players
- **Maintains privacy** by excluding network-sensitive information
- **Ensures graceful shutdown** with final state saves
- **Prevents storage corruption** with permanent storage locations

## Implementation Details

### Persistence Features

- **Automatic Saving**: Game state is automatically saved every 2 minutes while the server is running
- **Final Shutdown Save**: Performs a final save during graceful shutdown to prevent data loss
- **Atomic Saves**: Uses temporary files during the write process to prevent corruption if interrupted
- **JSON Format**: State files are stored in human-readable JSON format for easy inspection if needed
- **Permanent Storage**: Uses platform-specific permanent data directories for reliable storage
- **Graceful Degradation**: Server operates normally even if persistence is disabled
- **Position Validation**: Handles world boundary changes by validating saved positions
- **Signal Handling**: Properly handles termination signals (Ctrl+C) for clean shutdown

### Data Management

- **Backup Creation**: Before loading state, the system creates a backup of any existing state file
- **Stale Data Cleanup**: Players offline for more than 5 minutes are automatically removed during loading
- **Privacy Protection**: Network-sensitive information is excluded from the saved data
- **Compatibility Checking**: Ensures saved state is compatible with current server configuration

### Storage Management

- **Persistent Storage Location**: Nym mixnet data is stored in permanent platform-specific locations:
  - Linux: `~/.local/share/nymquest/server/nym_storage`
  - macOS: `~/Library/Application Support/nymquest/server/nym_storage`
  - Windows: `%APPDATA%\nymquest\server\nym_storage`
- **Directory Creation**: Storage directories are automatically created if they don't exist
- **Storage Integrity**: Proper shutdown ensures mixnet storage remains consistent
- **Network Disconnect**: Clean disconnection from Nym mixnet during shutdown

### Recovery Process

When the server starts:
1. The system checks for an existing state file
2. If found, it creates a backup of the current state
3. The state file is loaded and validated
4. Stale player data is removed
5. Positions are validated against current world boundaries
6. The cleaned state is applied to the server

Players need to reconnect after a server restart for network security reasons, but their game state (position, health, etc.) is preserved.

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

```bash
# Set the directory where game state files are stored
export NYMQUEST_STATE_DIRECTORY=/path/to/state/directory

# Set the base filename for state files (default: "game_state")
export NYMQUEST_STATE_FILENAME=custom_state_name

# Disable state persistence entirely (default: enabled)
export NYMQUEST_DISABLE_PERSISTENCE=true
```

### Default Settings

- **Save Interval**: 2 minutes
- **State Directory**: `./game_data/` relative to the server executable
- **Filename**: `game_state.json`
- **Backup Filename**: `game_state.json.bak`
- **Temp Filename During Save**: `game_state.json.tmp`

## Benefits

- **Data Durability**: Game state persists across server restarts
- **Continuity**: Players maintain their progress even if the server needs to be restarted
- **Administration Flexibility**: Allows for server maintenance without complete game reset
- **Disaster Recovery**: Backup system provides protection against data corruption

Commit message:

feat: Implement forced client disconnect and improve shutdown process
- Add forced client disconnect with countdown notification:
  - New ServerShutdown protocol message with countdown timer
  - Server notifies all connected clients before shutdown
  - Clients display prominent warning with shutdown countdown
  - Clients exit immediately without sending disconnect messages

- Improve server shutdown flow:
  - Wait briefly after sending notifications to ensure delivery
  - Save final game state before disconnecting
  - Better logging during shutdown sequence

- Update technical documentation:
  - Add new section on server shutdown process
  - Document client notification mechanism
  - Explain the full shutdown sequence

docs/technical/state_persistence.md, after:

# Game State Persistence

NymQuest includes a robust persistence system that allows the game state to be saved and recovered, ensuring continuity across server restarts and preventing data corruption.

## Overview

The server persistence system automatically:
- **Saves game state** to disk at regular intervals
- **Creates backups** before starting to prevent data loss
- **Recovers player data** on server restart
- **Validates compatibility** between saved state and current configuration
- **Cleans up stale data** by removing long-inactive players
- **Maintains privacy** by excluding network-sensitive information
- **Ensures graceful shutdown** with final state saves
- **Prevents storage corruption** with permanent storage locations
- **Notifies clients of shutdown** with countdown before forced disconnect

## Server Shutdown Process

The server implements a graceful shutdown procedure that ensures both data integrity and a good user experience:

1. **Shutdown Signal Detection**: The server captures termination signals (e.g., Ctrl+C) to initiate the shutdown sequence.

2. **Final State Save**: Before disconnecting, the server performs a final save of the game state, ensuring no progress is lost.

3. **Client Notification**: All connected clients are sent a `ServerShutdown` message containing:
   - A user-friendly shutdown message
   - A countdown (in seconds) before forced disconnect
   - A unique sequence number for tracking

4. **Delivery Confirmation**: The server waits briefly to ensure the notification has time to reach clients.

5. **Mixnet Disconnection**: The server gracefully disconnects from the Nym mixnet, ensuring all pending messages are flushed.

This process ensures that:
- Players receive advance warning about the shutdown
- Client applications can display appropriate UI notifications
- No game state is lost during shutdown
- The Nym mixnet connection is properly terminated

## Implementation Details

### Persistence Features

- **Automatic Saving**: Game state is automatically saved every 2 minutes while the server is running
- **Final Shutdown Save**: Performs a final save during graceful shutdown to prevent data loss
- **Atomic Saves**: Uses temporary files during the write process to prevent corruption if interrupted
- **JSON Format**: State files are stored in human-readable JSON format for easy inspection if needed
- **Permanent Storage**: Uses platform-specific permanent data directories for reliable storage
- **Graceful Degradation**: Server operates normally even if persistence is disabled
- **Position Validation**: Handles world boundary changes by validating saved positions
- **Signal Handling**: Properly handles termination signals (Ctrl+C) for clean shutdown

### Data Management

- **Backup Creation**: Before loading state, the system creates a backup of any existing state file
- **Stale Data Cleanup**: Players offline for more than 5 minutes are automatically removed during loading
- **Privacy Protection**: Network-sensitive information is excluded from the saved data
- **Compatibility Checking**: Ensures saved state is compatible with current server configuration

### Storage Management

- **Persistent Storage Location**: Nym mixnet data is stored in permanent platform-specific locations:
  - Linux: `~/.local/share/nymquest/server/nym_storage`
  - macOS: `~/Library/Application Support/nymquest/server/nym_storage`
  - Windows: `%APPDATA%\nymquest\server\nym_storage`
- **Directory Creation**: Storage directories are automatically created if they don't exist
- **Storage Integrity**: Proper shutdown ensures mixnet storage remains consistent
- **Network Disconnect**: Clean disconnection from Nym mixnet during shutdown

### Recovery Process

When the server starts:
1. The system checks for an existing state file
2. If found, it creates a backup of the current state
3. The state file is loaded and validated
4. Stale player data is removed
5. Positions are validated against current world boundaries
6. The cleaned state is applied to the server

Players need to reconnect after a server restart for network security reasons, but their game state (position, health, etc.) is preserved.

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

```bash
# Set the directory where game state files are stored
export NYMQUEST_STATE_DIRECTORY=/path/to/state/directory

# Set the base filename for state files (default: "game_state")
export NYMQUEST_STATE_FILENAME=custom_state_name

# Disable state persistence entirely (default: enabled)
export NYMQUEST_DISABLE_PERSISTENCE=true
```

### Default Settings

- **Save Interval**: 2 minutes
- **State Directory**: `./game_data/` relative to the server executable
- **Filename**: `game_state.json`
- **Backup Filename**: `game_state.json.bak`
- **Temp Filename During Save**: `game_state.json.tmp`

## Benefits

- **Data Durability**: Game state persists across server restarts
- **Continuity**: Players maintain their progress even if the server needs to be restarted
- **Administration Flexibility**: Allows for server maintenance without complete game reset
- **Disaster Recovery**: Backup system provides protection against data corruption
